A bad citizen in Pythonland
===========================

:date: 2016-04-18
:category: dev
:tags: python, fanfic

You are born as a fully-grown adult. God decides that some bodyparts are not
appropriate. Those are dynamically replaced and patched to fit God's plan. He
doesn't care if the new parts are rejected by the body: God doesn't ask for
permission. Either way, since you are already an adult, you are ready to start
a job. You ask the universe for a vehicle, and the universe gives you a generic
object. You can't tell what it is. However, you do see what appears to be a
steering wheel. You carefully put your hand on it. Suddenly, you hear a motor
starting, and the object moves. After a short time, the police stops you.
Apparently you are driving a racecar, without license plate. You are confused.
"I can't see that this is a racecar, I only see the steering wheel. Why can
they?". Maybe they're checking the type? "But that's illegal!" Deeply irritated
that the authorities would break their own rules, you pay your fine and
continue driving to work.

At work you tell a colleague of the incident with the police. But after you
finished the first sentence, the colleague starts foaming at the mouth, and
screams: "Unicode decode error!" A flash of light, and the colleague
disappears. He had it coming, you think to yourself. Was probably coming from
the old, sort-of-deprecated version of the universe. No way that will ever
happen to you.

For lunch, you and your colleagues go to the canteen. On your tablet, there is
already a free default meal. There are also some other paid choices available,
but you are not aware of them. You eat your free meal. You die. You are reborn,
but this time you are told to avoid the default meal. At the canteen you order
a paid meal this time. Turns out the default option is poisonous. The canteen
had some problems preparing your meal, but this time you at least don't die
from it.

After some years you do die of natural causes. Most of your organs begin to
decompose, but some organs continue to exist until your planet explodes. The
words "resource warning" appear in the sky, for nobody to see them.

----

This was inspired by (but is not completely analogous to) `"A bad citizen in
Javaland" <https://darrenhobbs.com/2006/04/22/a-bad-citizen-in-javaland/>`_.
